#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\date{ }
\end_preamble
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 2
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

HTTP OffLoad Business Model
\layout Author

Jerome Etienne
\layout Abstract

This text presents a possible business model for HTTP OffLoad and web site
 selling digital content.
 It introduces an incencitive for the web site and for the customer to use
 HTTP OffLoad, which would ease the adoption of HTTP OffLoad.
\layout Section

Description of the actors
\layout Standard

In this business model, there are 2 actors:
\layout Description

Seller In this business model, the seller is a web site selling digital
 content via large file, e.g.
 video.
 For example, it could be a movie producer, such as hollywood, selling its
 dvd under this format.
 It could be a porn web site, selling its movies via subscription.
\layout Description

Buyer In this business model, the buyer is a customer on the internet, buying
 the content of the seller.
 NOTE: As the seller receives money from the buyer, it is able to identify
 the buyer.
 This is an important part in the banking system described later.
\layout Section

Incencitives
\layout Standard

HTTP OffLoad allows the buyers to exchange the data between themselves,
 thus reducing the bandwidth cost of the seller.
\layout Subsection

Incencitive for the seller
\layout Standard

If the buyers uses HTTP OffLoad, its bandwidth cost is reduced.
 Moreover HTTP OffLoad efficiency is proportionnal to its number of users.
 Thus the bandwidth cost is no more linear to the number of buyers, while
 it is linear under the traditionnal central http server model.
\layout Standard

So the incencitive of the seller is to reduce its bandwidth cost.
 This depends on ratio between the cost of the whole sale process vs the
 cost of the bandwidth.
 If producing the content is rather cheap, the cost of the bandwidth is
 proportionnaly high, thus the incencitive is high.
\layout Subsection

Incencitive for the Buyer
\layout Standard

As HTTP OffLoad download from more sources, it may provide a faster download,
 so a better service.
 Nevertheless, HTTP OffLoad consumes the buyer upload bandwidth.
 If the faster download is not considered an high enougth incencitive, which
 is likely, one should introduce a banking system where the more a buyer
 upload to other buyer, the more advantages it got from the sellers.
 It is up to the buyers to determine which kind of advantages may be provided
 to the 'good customers'.
 As an example, the advantages could be additionnal contents accessible
 only to them or to pay less for the content they got.
\layout Section

Banking system
\layout Standard

In order to provide advantage to the 'good customers', the seller needs
 to be able to distinguish them from the 'normal customers', so to be able
 to monitor how much data has been uploaded and downloaded by a given buyer.
\layout Subsection

NOTE
\layout Itemize

As the seller is a web site, so a central server, it can run a centralized
 bank dedicated to its web site
\layout Itemize

All the buyers reports how much they uploaded and downloaded and from whom
\layout Itemize

as all buyer are identifiable by the seller, due to the original physical
 money transaction, the identity of the peers can be directly derived from
 this.
\layout Itemize

The connection between the peers should be authenticated to ensure that
 the identity are not forged.
\layout Itemize

On the other hand, right now i dont see what would be the incencitive to
 forge it.
 
\layout Itemize

As a buyer needs to pay to get its identity, it wont be willingly give it
 away to others ?
\layout Section

Security
\layout Itemize

As there is money involved, people will try not to pay.
 aka will try to crack the system.
\layout Itemize

Describe what are the possible attacks
\layout Itemize

What about the collusion between 2 buyers to simulate a large amount of
 data shared between them and thus increasing artificially their account.
\the_end
