#LyX 1.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 221
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\date{ }
\end_preamble
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 2
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

Metalink extension in .torrent
\layout Author

Jerome Etienne
\layout Abstract

This text presents a extension in .torrent file format in order to include
 a metalink file.
 Thus the bittorrent client supporting this extension will be able to take
 advantages of the metalink fileformat (TODO put some here), such as the
 multi protocol download.
 Morover, the resulting .torrent will remains compatible with all existing
 bittorrent clients, ensuring a smooth transition.
\layout Section

Extension Description
\layout Itemize

A bencoded string in the root dictionnary, with a key 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

metalink
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 
\layout Itemize

this string contains a metalink file with the unmodified format
\begin_deeper 
\layout Itemize

NOTE: if it possible to add a torrent inside a metalink file, in this case
 it is allowed but not recommended as it would be uselessly redundant.
\end_deeper 
\layout Section

About the transition
\layout Itemize

It should not be in the info dictionary as it would modify the infohash
 which acts as identifier for a swarm.
 Changing it would cause all the peers of the unmodified the .torrent not
 to find the one from the modified one, uselessly reducing the cooperation
 between peers.
\layout Itemize

metalink provides some administratives informations which are nice for indexing
 purpose or for informations purposes
\layout Itemize

especially it may provides links external to the bittorrent swarm to get
 the informations.
\layout Section

Convertion
\layout Standard

This section describes the methods to convert a file from one format to
 another, and the limitations of those convertions.
 Here one assume to have only the metafile without the data themselves or
 any human interventions.
\layout Subsection

From metalink to torrent
\layout Itemize

In fact with this, it is possible to merge the metalink and the torrent
 format.
\layout Itemize

If the original metalink file contains a torrent, it is trivial
\layout Itemize

if the original metalink file doesnt contains a torrent, it is possible
 but require to use the 'no piecehash' extension.
 which is not backward compatible with client which doesnt support it.
\layout Subsection

From torrent to metalink
\layout Itemize

it is possible to provide some basic field of a metalink file from a torrent
 and include the torrent in it
\layout Itemize

NOTE: that metalink are only for single file, hence it wont work for multi
 file torrent
\layout Itemize

is it ? i mean to check what are the minimal metalink
\layout Itemize

for example the hash of the whole file is not included in the .torrent
\the_end
